hello everybody my name is J I am one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language in this live class we're going
to look at IELTS reading we're gonna
look at short answer question this is a
part of the super skills
something-or-other course I guess you
can find a lot more videos up there on
YouTube or within the e to language
platform along with practice questions
and sample essays and one-on-one
tutorials lots of cool stuff at Ito
language comm if you're preparing for
your IELTS test or PT test on any of
those scary English language tests by
the way just before we begin if you're
on YouTube and you haven't clicked the
subscribe button do click the subscribe
button down there rock and roll let's
get started we're up to number eleven
this is the short answer style questions
which you will find or likely to find in
your IELTS reading test so there are 11
different question types let me just
explain this task type to you it's
pretty straightforward
it looks like this right on the left
hand side you'll see the text or the
passage on the right hand side you will
see questions look at number one it says
what has been found in some fancy foods
products for example here we know we're
doing the short answer questions but
there's a little bit to this because we
need to read the instruction this is a
critical aspect of this one it says
choose no more than three words and/or a
number now this specific instruction
will appear in multiple different
question types let's work out what that
means precisely because it's not evident
it's a little bit confusing let's have a
little look at what that might mean so
one word would be the word car for
example that might be the answer
two words might be red car three words
would be expensive red car that might be
the answer one word and a number might
be two cars two words and a number might
be two red cars three words and a number
might be too expensive red cars or you
might just have a number like 780
thousand now just keep in mind that you
can include and you should include
symbols if they're included in the text
that's what I call a little hint for you
hey that's a hint cool all right so
that's how the instruction works there
so there's a multiple different variety
of possible ways you can answer this
question in terms of the instruction now
you need to write your answers in boxes
one to five on your answer sheet so your
answer sheet might look something like
this two aspects politically correct
more than 100 people differences make a
point
for example now you need to be careful
because for example if the answer is
differences but I wrote a difference
that would be marked wrong and here it
says more than 100 people if I wrote 100
people more than one that is one two
three four five words that would be
marked wrong if I spelled politically
with one L and it was spelled wrong that
would be marked wrong yes so there's a
few little things to keep in mind there
just keep in mind that you're taking
words or phrases directly from the text
okay so you don't need to create
anything yourself you're taking it
directly from the text okay so if it
says if it's spelled the spelling will
be right in the text so take it from the
text and use that cool I think that's
all good now I haven't got a timer I'll
have to use my watch let's do this one
I'm going to give you five minutes hang
around to the end because we're going to
go through the answers your five minutes
starts now
[Music]
you
one minute
it's two minutes
you
that's three minutes just let me check
let's see all right how you going there
[Music]
maybe another minute I said five but I
think five is too generous one more
minute starting now
you
ten seconds
or
how's it going there how's it going on
YouTube do you okay looking good looking
good looking good all right let's go
through the answers I'm gonna tell you
why the answers are the way they are
okay cool bananas let's have a look at
the answers so number one what has been
found in some fancy foods products well
it says fancy foods wishes to inform the
public that pieces of metal have been
found in some jars da da da da
hopefully you found that pretty easy
although hopefully you wrote pieces of
metal not just metal if you wrote just
metal it would be incorrect you needed
pieces of metal this rings us through a
little bit of a trick with IELTS
sometimes there'll be a specific like a
key word here is metal right but there
may be like an adjective or a little
phrase like pieces of metal make sure
you include the additional little
details that make that thing specific
because that's what they're asking about
not just metal in general but pieces of
metal so keep that in mind let's do
number two where can you find the batch
number on the jars well here you can see
the key word so what we do how we know
how to do this is uh let's find a
keyword like batch and then we see the
keyword batch and batch repeat it again
so we know we're reading in this section
here right so now we say where can we
find the batch number on the jars the
batches of the jars involved have
numbers from - da da da da the bat
number is printed on the bottom of each
jar so you might have two possible
answers here bottom of jar or on the
bottom I think they are the two possible
correct answers there hopefully you got
one of those if you have an alternative
answer please let me know and I'll think
about whether it's correct it is
possible have alternative answers too
let's have a look at number three how
much will you receive for an opened jar
of candy
chicken curry well here it's talking
about how much money you can receive but
the key word here is opened jar it's as
fancy foods we'll pay $10 for each jar
returned unopened and $5 for each jar
already opened so the answer there is
number three is $5 with the dollar sign
if you had that that would be correct
well done if you're at $5 that would be
correct if you're at $5 that would also
be correct there's different
permutations there let's do number 4 if
you have eaten chicken curry from a jar
with one of the batch numbers listed at
whom should you contact key word here
would be whom because of know now we
know we're talking about a person right
and also contact who are we going to
contact with whom should you contact
says here however the retailing manager
will be interested to hear from people
who have consumed chicken curry from any
of the above that numbers down here it
says please contact the customer
relations manager but that's with regard
to the reward and that's different here
it's saying if you've eaten contaminated
chicken so retailing manager I'm just
worried I've written this incorrectly oh
no I haven't the retailing manager so if
you had the retailing manager or just
retailing manager either of those is
correct because it had capital letters
here I think you should use capital
letters in your answer I don't know if
you would get it correct if you had
lowercase so just be careful copy what
is in the text number five what is the
maximum this is the key word here
maximum reward fancy Foods is offering
for information about who contaminated
their product so we got two prices here
10,000 and 50,000 but we're interested
in the maximum number whoopsie so the
maximum number is 50 thousand 50
thousand dollars 50 thousand
dollars they are the answers my friends
how did you go what did you get out of
five please put it into the chat let
everybody know how brilliant you are and
you're a genius and your IQs like a
hundred and seventy you're like I
understand on steroids if it's not if
you're like most people and your
struggle to do this because it was hard
or that one was pretty straightforward I
think if you need help or check this
website out you can sign up for free
it's got heaps of practice materials
it's got all the methods in one nice
organized place just go to e to language
comm and I'll see you soon
or if not fairly well